Ensono - company - https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7453443816134520832?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_updateV2%3A%28urn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7453443816134520832%2CFEED_DETAIL%2CEMPTY%2CDEFAULT%2Cfalse%29

1. How you handle the state management in your environment?
Remote backend (S3) 
State locking using DynamoDB to avoid conflicts
Versioning in S3
Separate state files per environment (dev/qa/prod)

2. where do we use the Terraform workspaces? What is the exact use of it?
Multiple environments with same code
Each workspace has separate state file
Quick switching between environments

3. If prod workspace is deleted, what happens?
Workspace deletion removes state reference locally
Actual resources in AWS will NOT be deleted
But Terraform loses tracking of those resources

4. Can we recover state from S3 backend after workspace deletion?
Yes ✅
Since state is in S3 backend, it still exists
Create new workspace → reconfigure backend → Terraform will pull state
May need to run:
terraform init
terraform workspace new prod
If mismatch → use terraform state commands

6. what happens if a provider is getting upgraded? for example, you are in an AWS 7.5 provider, and that needs to be updated to 7.6. It's a major version. So how do you plan for this?
First check release notes / breaking changes
Update version in required_providers
Run terraform init -upgrade
Test in dev environment first
Validate with terraform plan
Then promote to QA → PROD
Always avoid direct upgrade in production

7. you have a S3 bucket, so that needs to be provided access. So you can do it in two ways. One is from IAM perspective, you can provide a IAM policy.
IAM Policy (recommended)
Attach policy to user/role
Bucket Policy
Used for cross-account or public access

8. you have a Linux server, this has been deployed via Terraform like a month ago with the data volume through Terraform itself. So currently it is sizing with 500 GB. the application team has started using it and they wanted to extend the block system to 750 GB. so now you are going into the your own workspace in Terraform and reviewing the code and you are changing the additional disk volume size GB from 500 to 750 GB. Okay, if you run a Terraform plan and apply, what will happen here?
Terraform will detect in-place update
It will NOT recreate volume
Only modify size from 500 → 750 GB
No downtime usually (if supported volume type like gp2/gp3)
After that, OS-level resize needed (filesystem extend)

9. Diffrence between Private VPC and Public VPC?
Public Subnet

Has route to Internet Gateway
Used for: Load balancer, bastion host

Private Subnet

No direct internet access
Uses NAT Gateway for outbound
Used for: EC2, RDS

10. you have a RDS database. So there is a concept called Multi-AZ. and there is a concept called Read Replicas. So what is the difference between these two?
Multi-AZ

Used for High Availability
Synchronous replication
Automatic failover
Same DB, standby instance

Read Replica

Used for Read Scaling
Asynchronous replication
No automatic failover (mostly manual)
Used to reduce read load

11. for example, there is an EC2 maintenance that's been called out for after two weeks, so there is a notification has been published on the AWS dashboard for a particular EC2 instance. So now that fault has a critical change window, so you don't want that set last deadline as per the notification, but you don't want to do that. So is there a way to postpone this?
Stop & Start instance manually (migrate early)
Use Auto Scaling / backup instance
Create AMI → launch new instance
👉 Basically, you can handle early, but not delay beyond limit

12. what are the cost optimization initiatives you have taken in your current environment?
Used Auto Scaling to reduce idle resources
Converted to Reserved Instances / Savings Plans
Used Spot instances for non-critical workloads
Deleted unused:
EBS volumes
Snapshots
Elastic IPs
Used S3 lifecycle policies
Right-sized EC2 instances using CloudWatch metrics

13. Explain where the Jenkins have been used in your environment?
Used for CI/CD pipeline automation
Example flow:
Code push → triggers Jenkins
Build + Test
Terraform apply for infra provisioning
Deploy app to EC2 / containers
Used for:
Automating Terraform deployments
Scheduling jobs (cron)
Integrating with GitHub
